NeoPolis is a reconverted mining field.

It is one of the most densely populated cities on Earth, and one of the first reconverted industrial areas.

When communications and trade started to break down between Earth and the Colonies, DeepStone and Athena Industries sold the mining field to a conglomerate of housing industries looking to convert the area into a city that could host some of the millions of people fleeing the polluted "old" cities and depleted rural areas.

The city is centered around two vertical arteries, the Shaft and the Stack.

The Shaft was the main mining area, and is a hole dug straight down. The hole is reinforced with permenant scafholdings and magma veins have been redirected to convert the heat into electricity and public central heating.

The Stack is connected to the Shaft by a series of tunnels, and was layer upon layer of mineral processing equipment and refineries.

The architectural structures of the Stack have proved to be an ideal foundation for the construction of inexpensive housing. The Stack is well supplied in electricity and heat, and there is plenty of infrastructure for moving products and waste down from the surface and back. However, clean water and sanitation remains a difficult task, as the lower layers have still not been refitted with safe piping.
Another challenge is Transport. The density of the architecture makes it difficult to build roads and access points without replacing whole sectors. Most of the Stack is only accessible from the Tunnels leading from the Shaft and a series of elevators.

The Shaft is essentially a mile-deep vertical hole, with reinforcements preventing cave-ins. The conversion companies have concetrated most of their efforts into filling the Shaft with higher-grade housing, Hydroponic and Aeroponic farms, and infrastructure for the "new" industries of Nano and Neuro technology. Unfortunately, as interstellar trade broke down, the scientists and engineers pioneering these fields left Earth for the colonies, leaving the factories and laboratories in relative disuse. Some companies have invested the premises and build items from decade old blueprints, but reverse engineering efforts have so far failed in developing any significant advances.
The architecture in the Shaft allows for a road that circles from the surface to the bottom, connecting at each tunnel to the Stack and at the major floors. High-yield elevators are also available, and railway stations connect major floors to the outside world through tunnels that ramp to the surface.

Both the Shaft and the Stack suffer from constant noise and a stuffy atmosphere, due to the machinery involved in keeping the city running and maintaining life (oxygen and temperature levels have to be monitored closely and air is consistently pumped into the city at all times.)

At the surface, around the Shaft and crowning the Stack, stands the unfinished Citadel. Intended to be the commercial and political heart of the city, an expensive structure was erected, able to host the wealthiest members of the population and provide a place for culture to thrive.

Luxury apartments house some of the city's most prominent figures, but most of the apartments remain empty. Botanical garden was developed to fill most of the unused space near the apartments, as an effort to show the Citadel was not a waste, but the garden is unkempt and overgrowth now spreads into many sections of the building